Let's talk about our first topic on the list content delivery networks or TDX and it's a topic we've
covered slightly in the course it helps with accelerating almost any web site by caching its files in
servers around the world.
You see whether your visitors come from Europe Asia North America anywhere else.
Content is automatically served from the nearest server for the fastest possible Spizz.
And this diagram is from the CloudFlare web site probably the most popular CDN service in North America
set up is extremely simple on their Web site.
You don't need to do anything with code.
You just go through their web page tell them what you need done and they do all the hard work for you.
All you need to do is update your DNS name servers to use lawfare and it kicks in automatically.
Now what does that mean.
Well originally if this is our origin server that is our own server that we have all our files on and
these CDN servers are owned by CloudFlare Well originally the request from one user lets say the users
in Alaska when a user requests a web page the users request because we modify within KLOV for flare
and tell it hey instead of coming directly to us to our origin server we modified our DNS configuration
so that this user gets routed to CloudFlare servers.
So they go to here upon initial request the edge server and this is what we call a CDN server sometimes
makes a request to the origin server for the content the user requested and the origins server responds
with the request.
And then finally the server responds to the client.
All right so that doesn't seem any faster does it.
Well the value of a CDN is proximity to the client occurs after the initial request to the origin server.
You see the first time around this server needs to get the files from the origin server.
However it does something called caching where again we're going to cover in this section.
After the initial request this data gets cached or remember'd onto the network of the Cdn so that each
subsequent request from the client only needs to go as far as the nearest that's server that is here.
So any more requests from this client is always going to go to this server and never have to worry about
the origin server.
Now why is this helpful.
Well obviously it improves page load speed.
There are also configure so it handles higher traffic loads.
It can block spammers scrapers and other bad bots because while CloudFlare and other companies that
offer this specialize in this so they dedicate a lot of time to their engineering team to fix these
problems.
It reduces your bandwidth consumption and sometimes they also do load balancing between multiple servers.
Again load balancing is something that will cover in this section.
Finally it is also very secure.
Usually they allow you to send static files over a sheet.
Yes.
And also protect web sites from things like OS attacks or distributed denial of service attacks.
So there's a lot of benefits to it.
Now in this example I used CloudFlare but there's a lot of options out there.
We have obviously CloudFlare and you can see how many servers they have around the world that based
on where users are they can just connect to the closest server.
There's also Amazon's popular cloud trunked and then Microsoft also has its own Microsoft Azure content
delivery network.
And there's a ton of other resources but these three are probably the most popular.
Now let's go back to the diagram
to understand why CDN ads are so popular and so widely used.
We have to figure out what the problem is and the problem is something called latency.
It's the annoying delay that occurs from the time that I hit enter to request a web page to actually
getting the web page to load onto my browser.
And that delay is affected by a number of factors and we've talked about it and the network optimization
section in all cases though a big part of it is the delay by the physical distance between you and the
Web sites hosting server.
Let's use this diagram as an example.
A request.
Let's say I was in New York to Singapore a server that is in Singapore.
Well that's a long long distance and a request doesn't necessarily go directly to Singapore.
It most often hops from one router to another router to another hour until it gets all the way to Singapore
and then finally they have to send those files back.
Now it's pretty clear how CDN improves this latency by pulling static content files from the origin
server and Singapore into a distributed CDN network and a process called caching.
So that now if the server was just in Portugal the Cdn server was just in Portugal.
We avoid all these extra hops.
And this is a point that we don't really need to go any further in.
It's pretty evident why CDN networks are valuable and you want to use companies that already have servers
around the world like CloudFlare Amazon and Microsoft because they already have that speciality and
they're fairly cheap to use and some offer free options like CloudFlare.
So definitely give it a go.
Any time you need to optimize delivering files to the front end.
I'll see in the next one Buh-Bye.